Let the fragrance spread far and wide. Have
you had your food yet? Oh, you are going to
eat only now? Careful… Today's topic is
kinda…. Well, all I can say is, this is
not a program you can watch "while you are
eating". You've been warned! That's all I
can tell you! Let's get shit done!
Namaste!
A few months ago, I came across this content
creator on YouTube. Ankur Warikoo is his name.
A Kashmiri. An entrepreneur. An author. A
speaker. He has written a book called "Do
Epic Shit". Very interesting. I finished reading
it over the weekend. And,… I would strongly
recommend not only his book but also his YouTube
videos, his Twitter channel, if you are interested
in learning from other people's mistakes.
In fact, this is the Table of Contents. About
Success (and Failure too), Habits, Awareness,
Entrepreneurship, Money, and Relationships.
This is what he has talked about in that book.
It is almost a random collection of tweets
and posts and other articles he has written
over the past ten years perhaps.. He and his
team have put it all together and made it
a book. A bit repetitive… And, occasionally,
there seems to be no beginning, no end, no
connection, no continuity. Sometimes…
But, I kept looking. That word "Shit"… he
has used it in the cover, pretty boldly. I
searched for it inside the book. For that
word or phrase. Surprisingly, strangely, almost
zero occurrences of that term. Yes, he talks
about how he got things done, he gives advice
on how to set goals, how to actually think
about habits and not goals, a lot of advice
like that. But, he hasn't used that word inside
that book.
He also tells us, in the foreword itself,
that his book is like a "Book Cricket" book.
Do you remember how you used to play that
game? Sitting in the last bench at school?
Take any random book, flip to a random page,
sum the digits of the page number, and that
determines whether your virtual batsman gets
runs or gets out! He claims this book to be
one such book! Jump to any page, on any day!
It is almost like "Shitting"! Once a day!
Go to any page, and, read, understand, imbibe,
implement.
I remember another book that does the exact
same thing. It is by Richard Bach, and we
have met him earlier too, when we talked about
Jonathan Livingston Seagull, the bird story.
This is another book by him, titled Illusions.
He talks about a book inside this book. That
the hero goes around, toting like a diary.
In his hand. And, whenever he is stuck, whenever
he is in a dilemma, he just goes to that book
and opens a random page, and there, would
like the answer he is looking for! That would
be the interesting movement described in that
book.
They say this even about The Bible! On the
other hand, in a Church, a priest who had
researched the scriptures quite well, once
quipped… The Holy Bible is to be read, analysed,
and pondered over deeply, from the start to
the end. It is such a book. Don't go in search
of random messages. He gave an example too,
from the Bible itself. For example, you may
jump to Matthew 27:5. And, immediately you
may be taken to Luke 10:37. Guess what would
happen then? In Matthew 27:5, Judas throws
away the silver pieces and hangs himself to
death… And, in Luke 10:37, the verse goes
"Do likewise!" "You also should do likewise!" - A
passage, really with no connection whatsoever
to Matthew 27:5. Is this a good message. So,
the Bible is not to be read like that is my
simple, humble recommendation.
Coming back to this book, one amazing thing
that I really loved about the Do Epic Shit
book was the Failure Resume. He talks a lot
about the mistakes he made in his twenties,
and in his thirties, about money, about relationships,
about time, and he says, these are the lessons
I learned. And, he publishes something called
his Failure Resume. These are not my achievements.
These are not the things that I am really
proud of. These are things I am ashamed of.
These are things I goofed up in. These are
things that I made terrible mistakes with.
But, these are the lessons I learned alongside!
I failed.. I learned. I failed… I learned.
I failed… I learned. Goes his resume. It
was so interesting! I am going to recommend
to all my juniors to actually come up with
a Failure Resume. If your Failure Resume is
empty, something is wrong somewhere. You haven't
probably been trying hard enough. Experimenting
enough. Innovating enough.
Okay, alright, is there something we can share,
about Shit, in true Quotidian Style? I wondered.
I went rummaging into my archives. I came
up with three. Here is the first one.
We have addressed this quite some time ago.
Where, knowledge is for Sharing. And not for
Hoarding. And as an example, and as a simile,
we had seen the phrase "Knowledge is like
Cow Dung". If you pack it, all the way to
the ceiling, inside a closed room, it will
stink to high heaven! On the other hand, if
you spread it far and wide, knowledge, cow
dung, it becomes manure! Useful for everybody,
including you! So, knowledge and Cow Shit!
Okay, what is the second shit we are talking
about? The second one is a beautiful story
my aunt used to give me. She lived in Mumbai.
And this aunt told me… The definition, the
defining characteristics of an idiot, is just
this: The fool gets shit in three places!
Whaaat? What would that mean? An idiot, walking,
steps on shit. See what happens.
Alright. He has got it on his foot.
Ouch. He has got it on his fingers!
Ouch. He has got it on his nose!!
Yes, of course, one needs to be curious. But,
morbid curiosity? With no rational thought
behind it? You step on something… Wanting
to know what it is, you will take it on to
your fingers, wanting to know what it is you
will take it to your nose? And you will get
it on your nose?? A fool. Gets it in three
places. Rather than one. Interesting, nah?
The third piece of shit that we are going
to talk about today, is from this movie. Based
on a book by Agatha Christie, called the Murder
On The Orient Express. Hercule Poirot. An
amazing detective. The world's most famous
detective! That is whom this book is about.
In this cinematic rendering of the story,
Hercule Poirot is walking, and he steps on
to something. See what happens. See how Zen
his approach is!
See how he defines the problem… If only
we too, adopted this approach to all the shit
that comes our way, rather than try and be
clean and completely untouched by everything,
can we calm ourselves and say, "Hey, Symmetric!
Perfect Enough!" And move on? I thought that
was a great philosophy right there!
For the Closing Thought, I wanted to just
offer a connection. Suddenly it occurred to
me that there is this English word called
nincompoop! Stupid person! Nincompoop… is
a silly, foolish, stupid person.. Has the
word "poop" sitting next to it! I have nothing
more to say!
Let us meet again on the 28th!